<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:fn="http://www.w3.org/2005/xpath-functions" xmlns:func="https://philschatz.com/xslt-functions" xmlns:j="http://www.w3.org/2005/xpath-functions" xmlns:p="https://philschatz.com/temporary-namespace" xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema">
   <head>
      <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
      <title>Practice Exercises for american-government-2e</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h2>Chapter 1</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            What goods are available to all without direct payment?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">private goods</li>
            <li class="option">public goods</li>
            <li class="option">common goods</li>
            <li class="option">toll goods</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 5</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The elite theory of government maintains that ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">special interest groups make government policy</li>
            <li class="option">politicians who have held office for a long time are favored by voters</li>
            <li class="option">poor people and people of color should not be allowed to vote</li>
            <li class="option">wealthy, politically powerful people control government, and government has no interest
               in meeting the needs of ordinary people</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 7</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following is a good example of a tradeoff?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">The government pleases environmental activists by preserving public lands but also
               pleases ranchers by allowing them to rent public lands for grazing purposes.</li>
            <li class="option">The government pleases environmental activists by reintroducing wolves to Yellowstone
               National Park but angers ranchers by placing their cattle in danger.</li>
            <li class="option">The government pleases oil companies by allowing them to drill on lands set aside
               for conservation but allows environmental activist groups to protest the drilling
               operations.</li>
            <li class="option">Groups that represent a variety of conflicting interests are all allowed to protest
               outside Congress and the White House.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 9</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            When a person is asked a question about a political issue that he or she has little
            interest in and has not thought much about, that person’s answer will likely reflect
            ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">ideology</li>
            <li class="option">partisanship</li>
            <li class="option">intense preferences</li>
            <li class="option">latent preferences</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 2</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            British colonists in North America in the late seventeenth century were greatly influenced
            by the political thought of ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">King James II</li>
            <li class="option">Thomas Jefferson</li>
            <li class="option">John Locke</li>
            <li class="option">James Madison</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 5</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            What important power did the national government lack under the Articles of Confederation?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">It could not coin money.</li>
            <li class="option">It could not declare war.</li>
            <li class="option">It could not impose taxes.</li>
            <li class="option">It could not conduct foreign affairs.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 7</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            According to the Great Compromise, how would representation in Congress be apportioned?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Each state would have equal representation in both the House of Representatives and
               the Senate.</li>
            <li class="option">Congress would be a unicameral legislature with each state receiving equal representation.</li>
            <li class="option">Representation in the House of Representatives would be based on each state’s population
               and every state would have two senators.</li>
            <li class="option">Representation in both the House of Representatives and the Senate would be based
               on a state’s population.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 11</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            What argument did Alexander Hamilton use to convince people that it was not dangerous
            to place power in the hands of one man?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">That man would have to pass a religious test before he could become president; thus,
               citizens could be sure that he was of good character.</li>
            <li class="option">One man could respond to crises more quickly than a group of men like Congress.</li>
            <li class="option">It was easier to control the actions of one man than the actions of a group.</li>
            <li class="option">both B and C</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 13</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            How many states must ratify an amendment before it becomes law?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">all</li>
            <li class="option">three-fourths</li>
            <li class="option">two-thirds</li>
            <li class="option">one-half</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 3</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which statement about federal and unitary systems is most accurate?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">In a federal system, power is concentrated in the states; in a unitary system, it
               is concentrated in the national government.</li>
            <li class="option">In a federal system, the constitution allocates powers between states and federal
               government; in a unitary system, powers are lodged in the national government.</li>
            <li class="option">Today there are more countries with federal systems than with unitary systems.</li>
            <li class="option">The United States and Japan have federal systems, while Great Britain and Canada have
               unitary systems.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 5</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            In McCulloch v. Maryland, the Supreme Court invoked which provisions of the constitution?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Tenth Amendment and spending clause</li>
            <li class="option">commerce clause and supremacy clause</li>
            <li class="option">necessary and proper clause and supremacy clause</li>
            <li class="option">taxing power and necessary and proper clause</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 7</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which is not a merit of cooperative federalism?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Federal cooperation helps mitigate the problem of collective action among states.</li>
            <li class="option">Federal assistance encourages state and local governments to generate positive externalities.</li>
            <li class="option">Cooperative federalism respects the traditional jurisdictional boundaries between
               states and federal government.</li>
            <li class="option">Federal assistance ensures some degree of uniformity of public services across states.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 11</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which statement about unfunded mandates is false?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">The Unfunded Mandates Reform Act has prevented Congress from using unfunded mandates.</li>
            <li class="option">The Clean Air Act is a type of federal partial preemptive regulation.</li>
            <li class="option">Title VI of the Civil Rights Act establishes crosscutting requirements.</li>
            <li class="option">New federalism does not promote the use of unfunded mandates.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 13</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which statement about immigration federalism is false?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">The Arizona v. United States decision struck down all Arizona’s most restrictive provisions
               on illegal immigration.</li>
            <li class="option">Since the 1990s, states have increasingly moved into the policy domain of immigration.</li>
            <li class="option">Federal immigration laws trump state laws.</li>
            <li class="option">States’ involvement in immigration is partly due to their interest in preventing illegal
               immigrants from accessing public services such as education and welfare benefits.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 15</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which statement about venue shopping is true?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">MADD steered the drinking age issue from the federal government down to the states.</li>
            <li class="option">Anti-abortion advocates have steered the abortion issue from the states up to the
               federal government.</li>
            <li class="option">Both MADD and anti-abortion proponents redirected their advocacy from the states to
               the federal government.</li>
            <li class="option">None of the statements are correct.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 17</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following is not a benefit of federalism?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Federalism promotes political participation.</li>
            <li class="option">Federalism encourages economic equality across the country.</li>
            <li class="option">Federalism provides for multiple levels of government action.</li>
            <li class="option">Federalism accommodates a diversity of opinion.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 4</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The Bill of Rights was added to the Constitution because ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">key states refused to ratify the Constitution unless it was added</li>
            <li class="option">Alexander Hamilton believed it was necessary</li>
            <li class="option">it was part of the Articles of Confederation</li>
            <li class="option">it was originally part of the Declaration of Independence</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 3</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The Fourteenth Amendment was critically important for civil liberties because it ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">guaranteed freed slaves the right to vote</li>
            <li class="option">outlawed slavery</li>
            <li class="option">helped start the process of selective incorporation of the Bill of Rights</li>
            <li class="option">allowed the states to continue to enact black codes</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 7</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The Third Amendment can be thought of as ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">reinforcing the right to keep and bear arms guaranteed by the Second Amendment</li>
            <li class="option">ensuring the right to freedom of the press</li>
            <li class="option">forming part of a broader conception of privacy in the home that is also protected
               by the Second and Fourth Amendments</li>
            <li class="option">strengthening the right to a jury trial in criminal cases</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 11</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The Supreme Court case known as Kelo v. City of New London was controversial because
            it ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">allowed greater use of the power of eminent domain</li>
            <li class="option">regulated popular ride-sharing services like Lyft and Uber</li>
            <li class="option">limited the application of the death penalty</li>
            <li class="option">made it harder for police to use evidence obtained without a warrant</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 13</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The double jeopardy rule in the Bill of Rights forbids which of the following?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">prosecuting someone in a state court for a criminal act he or she had been acquitted
               of in federal court</li>
            <li class="option">prosecuting someone in federal court for a criminal act he or she had been acquitted
               of in a state court</li>
            <li class="option">suing someone for damages for an act the person was found not guilty of</li>
            <li class="option">none of these options</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 17</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following rights is not explicitly protected by some state constitutions?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">the right to hunt</li>
            <li class="option">the right to privacy</li>
            <li class="option">the right to polygamous marriage</li>
            <li class="option">the right to a free public education</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 19</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following rules has the Supreme Court said is an undue burden on the
            right to have an abortion?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Women must make more than one visit to an abortion clinic before the procedure can
               be performed.</li>
            <li class="option">Minors must gain the consent of a parent or judge before seeking an abortion.</li>
            <li class="option">Women must notify their spouses before having an abortion.</li>
            <li class="option">Women must be informed of the health consequences of having an abortion.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 5</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            A group of African American students believes a college admissions test that is used
            by a public university discriminates against them. What legal standard would the courts
            use in deciding their case?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">rational basis test</li>
            <li class="option">intermediate scrutiny</li>
            <li class="option">strict scrutiny</li>
            <li class="option">equal protection</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 3</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following types of discrimination would be subject to the rational basis
            test?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">A law that treats men differently from women</li>
            <li class="option">An action by a state governor that treats Asian Americans differently from other citizens</li>
            <li class="option">A law that treats whites differently from other citizens</li>
            <li class="option">A law that treats 10-year-olds differently from 28-year-olds</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 5</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The Supreme Court decision ruling that “separate but equal” was constitutional and
            allowed racial segregation to take place was ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Brown v. Board of Education</li>
            <li class="option">Plessy v. Ferguson</li>
            <li class="option">Loving v. Virginia</li>
            <li class="option">Shelley v. Kraemer</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 9</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            How did NAWSA differ from the NWP?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">NAWSA worked to win votes for women on a state-by-state basis while the NWP wanted
               an amendment added to the Constitution.</li>
            <li class="option">NAWSA attracted mostly middle-class women while NWP appealed to the working class.</li>
            <li class="option">The NWP favored more confrontational tactics like protests and picketing while NAWSA
               circulated petitions and lobbied politicians.</li>
            <li class="option">The NWP sought to deny African Americans the vote, but NAWSA wanted to enfranchise
               all women.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 11</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The Trail of Tears is the name given to the forced removal of this tribe from Georgia
            to Oklahoma.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Lakota</li>
            <li class="option">Paiute</li>
            <li class="option">Navajo</li>
            <li class="option">Cherokee</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 15</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following best describes attitudes toward Asian immigrants in the late
            nineteenth and early twentieth centuries?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Asian immigrants were welcomed to the United States and swiftly became financially
               successful.</li>
            <li class="option">Asian immigrants were disliked by whites who feared competition for jobs, and several
               acts of Congress sought to restrict immigration and naturalization of Asians.</li>
            <li class="option">Whites feared Asian immigrants because Japanese and Chinese Americans were often disloyal
               to the U.S. government.</li>
            <li class="option">Asian immigrants got along well with whites but not with Mexican Americans or African
               Americans.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 6</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following is not an agent of political socialization?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">a family member</li>
            <li class="option">a religious leader</li>
            <li class="option">a teacher</li>
            <li class="option">a U.S. senator</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 3</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            ________ political content is given by a media source that lets the reader or viewer
            know upfront there is a political bias or position.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Overt</li>
            <li class="option">Covert</li>
            <li class="option">Explanatory</li>
            <li class="option">Expository</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 7</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following is not part of a scientific poll design?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">a leading question</li>
            <li class="option">a random sample</li>
            <li class="option">a representative sample</li>
            <li class="option">a low margin of error</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 11</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Why are social policies controversial?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">They require people to accept the authority of the government.</li>
            <li class="option">They require government to balance the rights and liberties of different groups.</li>
            <li class="option">They require the government to increase spending.</li>
            <li class="option">They require a decrease in regulations and laws.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 13</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which institution has the highest average public approval ratings?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">the presidency</li>
            <li class="option">the U.S. House of Representatives</li>
            <li class="option">the U.S. Senate</li>
            <li class="option">the Supreme Court</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 17</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Presidential approval ratings ________ over a president’s term of office.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">increase</li>
            <li class="option">decline</li>
            <li class="option">stay relatively stable</li>
            <li class="option">seesaw</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 7</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following makes it easy for a citizen to register to vote?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">grandfather clause</li>
            <li class="option">lengthy residency requirement</li>
            <li class="option">National Voter Registration Act</li>
            <li class="option">competency requirement</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 3</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            What unusual step did Oregon take to increase voter registration?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">The state automatically registers all citizens over eighteen to vote.</li>
            <li class="option">The state ended voter registration.</li>
            <li class="option">The state sends every resident a voter registration ballot.</li>
            <li class="option">The state allows online voter registration.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 7</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            What characterizes those most likely to vote in the next election?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">over forty-five years old</li>
            <li class="option">income under $30,000</li>
            <li class="option">high school education or less</li>
            <li class="option">residency in the South</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 13</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following citizens is most likely to run for office?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Maria Trejo, a 28-year-old part-time sonogram technician and mother of two</li>
            <li class="option">Jeffrey Lyons, a 40-year-old lawyer and father of one</li>
            <li class="option">Linda Tepsett, a 40-year-old full-time orthopedic surgeon</li>
            <li class="option">Mark Forman, a 70-year-old retired steelworker</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 15</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            In which type of election are you most likely to see coattail effects?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">presidential</li>
            <li class="option">midterm</li>
            <li class="option">special</li>
            <li class="option">caucuses</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 21</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which factor is most likely to lead to the incumbency advantage for a candidate?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">candidate’s socioeconomic status</li>
            <li class="option">gerrymandering of the candidate’s district</li>
            <li class="option">media’s support of the candidate</li>
            <li class="option">candidate’s political party</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 25</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            A referendum is not purely direct democracy because the ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">voters propose something but the governor approves it</li>
            <li class="option">voters propose and approve something but the legislature also approves it</li>
            <li class="option">government proposes something and the voters approve it</li>
            <li class="option">government proposes something and the legislature approves it</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 8</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            A local station that broadcasts national network programming is called a(an) ________
            station.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">affiliate</li>
            <li class="option">cable</li>
            <li class="option">digital</li>
            <li class="option">network</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 3</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            A conglomerate is a corporation that ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">owns all television news stations in a state</li>
            <li class="option">owns many businesses and media networks</li>
            <li class="option">owns only radio stations</li>
            <li class="option">owns only televisions and newspapers</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 9</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Muckraking occurs when newspapers ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">investigate problems in government and business</li>
            <li class="option">investigate actions of celebrities</li>
            <li class="option">print sensational news on the front page to sell papers</li>
            <li class="option">print more editorials and opinion pieces to sell papers</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 11</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Television news became a regular feature during ________ due to the public’s demand
            for ________ to explain current events.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">WWI; images and maps</li>
            <li class="option">Great Depression; charts and tables</li>
            <li class="option">WWII; images and maps</li>
            <li class="option">Vietnam War; charts and tables</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 15</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            In which circumstance would the courts find libel?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">A reporter uses a source that incorrectly states a celebrity is using drugs.</li>
            <li class="option">A columnist writes his opinion about whether an actor is hiding a drug problem.</li>
            <li class="option">A television reporter delivers a story about increased drug use at the local college.</li>
            <li class="option">A reporter writes that local college students are drug dealers but has no sources.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 17</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The Federal Communications Commission oversees the programming of which entities?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">television</li>
            <li class="option">television and radio</li>
            <li class="option">television, radio, and satellite</li>
            <li class="option">television, radio, satellite, and cable</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 21</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following is an example of episodic framing?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">a story on drug abuse that interviews addicts and discusses reasons for addiction
               and government responses to help addicts</li>
            <li class="option">a story on how drug abuse policy has changed since 1984</li>
            <li class="option">a story on candidates’ answers to a drug question in a debate</li>
            <li class="option">a story detailing arguments against needle exchange programs</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 23</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Media coverage of a race tends to ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">accurately portray all races equally</li>
            <li class="option">accurately portray whites and blacks as victims</li>
            <li class="option">overrepresent whites and the elderly as poor</li>
            <li class="option">overrepresent African Americans as poor</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 9</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which supporter of federalism warned people about the dangers of political parties?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">John Adams</li>
            <li class="option">Alexander Hamilton</li>
            <li class="option">James Madison</li>
            <li class="option">George Washington</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 5</h3>
         <div class="stem">In which type of electoral system do voters select the party of their choice rather
            than an individual candidate?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">proportional representation</li>
            <li class="option">first-past-the-post</li>
            <li class="option">plurality voting</li>
            <li class="option">majoritarian voting</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 9</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which level of party organization is most responsible for helping the party’s nominee
            win the presidency?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">precinct</li>
            <li class="option">county</li>
            <li class="option">state</li>
            <li class="option">national</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 10</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Someone who lobbies on behalf of a company that he or she works for as part of his
            or her job is ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">an in-house lobbyist</li>
            <li class="option">a volunteer lobbyist</li>
            <li class="option">a contract lobbyist</li>
            <li class="option">a legislative liaison</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 3</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Why might several competing corporations join together in an association?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">because there is often strength in numbers</li>
            <li class="option">because they often have common issues that may affect an entire industry</li>
            <li class="option">because they can all benefit from governmental policies</li>
            <li class="option">all the above</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 5</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            What type of incentives appeal to someone’s concern about a cause?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">solidary incentives</li>
            <li class="option">purposive incentives</li>
            <li class="option">material incentives</li>
            <li class="option">negative incentives</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 9</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            What changes have occurred in the lobbying environment over the past three or four
            decades?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">There is more professional lobbying.</li>
            <li class="option">Many interests lobby both the national government and the states.</li>
            <li class="option">A fragmentation of interests has taken place.</li>
            <li class="option">all the above</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 15</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            What is a difference between a PAC and a super PAC?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">PACs can contribute directly to candidates, but super PACs cannot.</li>
            <li class="option">Conservative interests favor PACs over super PACs.</li>
            <li class="option">Contributions to PACs are unlimited, but restrictions have been placed on how much
               money can be contributed to super PACs.</li>
            <li class="option">Super PACS are much more likely to support incumbent candidates than are PACs.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 19</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            In what ways are lobbyists regulated?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Certain activities are prohibited.</li>
            <li class="option">Contributions must be disclosed.</li>
            <li class="option">Lobbying is prohibited immediately after leaving office.</li>
            <li class="option">all the above</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 11</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The Great Compromise successfully resolved differences between ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">large and small states</li>
            <li class="option">slave and non-slave states</li>
            <li class="option">the Articles of Confederation and the Constitution</li>
            <li class="option">the House and the Senate</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 3</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The process of redistricting can present problems for congressional representation
            because ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">districts must include urban and rural areas</li>
            <li class="option">states can gain but never lose districts</li>
            <li class="option">districts are often drawn to benefit partisan groups</li>
            <li class="option">states have been known to create more districts than they have been apportioned</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 9</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The saying “All politics is local” roughly means ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">the local candidate will always win</li>
            <li class="option">the local constituents want action on national issues</li>
            <li class="option">the local constituents tend to care about things that affect them</li>
            <li class="option">the act of campaigning always occurs at the local level where constituents are</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 13</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The increasing value constituents have placed on descriptive representation in Congress
            has had the effect of ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">increasing the sensitivity representatives have to their constituents demands</li>
            <li class="option">decreasing the rate at which incumbents are elected</li>
            <li class="option">increasing the number of minority members in Congress</li>
            <li class="option">decreasing the number of majority minority districts</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 17</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            A select committee is different from a standing committee because ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">a select committee includes member of both chambers, while a standing committee includes
               only members of the House</li>
            <li class="option">a select committee is used for bill reconciliation, while a standing committee is
               used for prosecutions</li>
            <li class="option">a select committee must stay in session, while a standing committee goes to recess</li>
            <li class="option">a select committee is convened for a specific and temporary purpose, while a standing
               committee is permanent</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 19</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Stopping a filibuster requires that ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">a majority of senators agree on the bill</li>
            <li class="option">the speaker steps away from the podium</li>
            <li class="option">the chamber votes for cloture</li>
            <li class="option">the Speaker or majority leader intervenes</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 21</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The key means of advancing modern legislation is now ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">committees</li>
            <li class="option">the actions of the leadership</li>
            <li class="option">the budget process</li>
            <li class="option">the filibuster</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 12</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Many at the Continental Congress were skeptical of allowing presidents to be directly
            elected by the legislature because ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">they were worried about giving the legislature too much power</li>
            <li class="option">they feared the opportunities created for corruption</li>
            <li class="option">they knew the weaknesses of an electoral college</li>
            <li class="option">they worried about subjecting the commander-in-chief to public scrutiny</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 5</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            How did the election of 1824 change the way presidents were selected?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Following this election, presidents were directly elected.</li>
            <li class="option">Jackson’s supporters decided to create a device for challenging the Electoral College.</li>
            <li class="option">The election convinced many that the parties must adopt the king caucus as the primary
               method for selecting presidents.</li>
            <li class="option">The selection of the candidate with fewer electoral votes triggered the rise of party
               control over nominations.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 9</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            A very challenging job for new presidents is to ______.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">move into the White House</li>
            <li class="option">prepare and deliver their first State of the Union address</li>
            <li class="option">nominate and gain confirmation for their cabinet and hundreds of other officials</li>
            <li class="option">prepare their first executive budget</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 11</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            President Theodore Roosevelt’s concept of the bully pulpit was the office’s ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">authority to use force, especially military force</li>
            <li class="option">constitutional power to veto legislation</li>
            <li class="option">premier position to pressure through public appeal</li>
            <li class="option">ability to use technology to enhance the voice of the president</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 15</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following is an example of an executive agreement?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">The president negotiates an agreement with China and submits it to the Senate for
               ratification.</li>
            <li class="option">The president changes a regulation on undocumented immigrant status without congressional
               approval.</li>
            <li class="option">The president signs legally binding nuclear arms terms with Iran without seeking congressional
               approval.</li>
            <li class="option">The president issues recommendations to the Department of Justice on what the meaning
               of a new criminal statute is.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 13</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The Supreme Court’s power of judicial review ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">is given to it in the original constitution</li>
            <li class="option">enables it to declare acts of the other branches unconstitutional</li>
            <li class="option">allows it to hear cases</li>
            <li class="option">establishes the three-tiered court system</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 3</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            In Federalist No. 78, Alexander Hamilton characterized the judiciary as the ________
            branch of government.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">most unnecessary</li>
            <li class="option">strongest</li>
            <li class="option">least dangerous</li>
            <li class="option">most political</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 7</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Both state and federal courts hear matters that involve ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">civil law only</li>
            <li class="option">criminal law only</li>
            <li class="option">both civil and criminal law</li>
            <li class="option">neither civil nor criminal law</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 11</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Besides the Supreme Court, there are lower courts in the national system called ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">state and federal courts</li>
            <li class="option">district and circuit courts</li>
            <li class="option">state and local courts</li>
            <li class="option">civil and common courts</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 13</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The justices of the Supreme Court are ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">elected by citizens</li>
            <li class="option">chosen by the Congress</li>
            <li class="option">confirmed by the president</li>
            <li class="option">nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 17</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            A case will be placed on the Court’s docket when ________ justices agree to do so.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">four</li>
            <li class="option">five</li>
            <li class="option">six</li>
            <li class="option">all</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 19</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The lawyer who represents the federal government and argues cases before the Supreme
            Court is the ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">solicitor general</li>
            <li class="option">attorney general</li>
            <li class="option">U.S. attorney</li>
            <li class="option">chief justice</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 21</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            When using judicial restraint, a judge will usually ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">refuse to rule on a case</li>
            <li class="option">overrule any act of Congress he or she doesn’t like</li>
            <li class="option">defer to the decisions of the elected branches of government</li>
            <li class="option">make mostly liberal rulings</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 23</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following is a check that the legislative branch has over the courts?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Senate approval is needed for the appointment of justices and federal judges.</li>
            <li class="option">Congress may rewrite a law the courts have declared unconstitutional.</li>
            <li class="option">Congress may withhold funding needed to implement court decisions.</li>
            <li class="option">all of the above</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 14</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            ________ dictate the terms and conditions state governments would have to meet in
            order to qualify for financial assistance in a specific policy area.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Categorical grants</li>
            <li class="option">Block grants</li>
            <li class="option">Unfunded mandates</li>
            <li class="option">Crossover sanctions</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 3</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Dillon’s Rule gives local governments the freedom and flexibility to make decisions
            for themselves.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">True</li>
            <li class="option">False</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 5</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            In a ________ political culture, the government is seen as a mechanism for maintaining
            the existing social order or status quo.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">moralistic</li>
            <li class="option">individualistic</li>
            <li class="option">traditionalistic</li>
            <li class="option">nativistic</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 7</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            ________ was the first state to institute all mail-in voting and automatic voter registration.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">California</li>
            <li class="option">Oregon</li>
            <li class="option">Washington</li>
            <li class="option">New York</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 9</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            In a ________ legislature, members tend to have low salaries, shorter sessions, and
            few staff members to assist them with their legislative functions.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">professional</li>
            <li class="option">citizen</li>
            <li class="option">hybrid</li>
            <li class="option">unicameral</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 13</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The most common term limit across the states that have imposed them is ________ years.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">four</li>
            <li class="option">six</li>
            <li class="option">eight</li>
            <li class="option">twelve</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 15</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Term limits have produced a statistically significant increase in the number of women
            serving in state legislatures.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">True</li>
            <li class="option">False</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 17</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Under the mayor-council system, the ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">legislative and executive responsibilities are separated</li>
            <li class="option">political and administrative functions are separated</li>
            <li class="option">mayor chairs the city council</li>
            <li class="option">city council selects the mayor</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 15</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            During George Washington’s administration, there were ________ cabinet positions.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">four</li>
            <li class="option">five</li>
            <li class="option">six</li>
            <li class="option">seven</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 3</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Two recent periods of large-scale bureaucratic expansion were ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">the 1930s and the 1960s</li>
            <li class="option">the 1920s and the 1980s</li>
            <li class="option">the 1910s and the 1990s</li>
            <li class="option">the 1930s and the 1950s</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 5</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The Civil Service Commission was created by the ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Pendleton Act of 1883</li>
            <li class="option">Lloyd–La Follette Act of 1912</li>
            <li class="option">Hatch Act of 1939</li>
            <li class="option">Political Activities Act of 1939</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 9</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following models of bureaucracy best accounts for the way bureaucracies
            tend to push Congress for more funding each year?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">the Weberian model</li>
            <li class="option">the acquisitive model</li>
            <li class="option">the monopolistic model</li>
            <li class="option">the ideal model</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 13</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            When reformers speak of bureaucratic privatization, they mean all the following processes
            except ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">divestiture</li>
            <li class="option">government grants</li>
            <li class="option">whistleblowing</li>
            <li class="option">third-party financing</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 16</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which of the following is not an example of a public policy outcome?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">the creation of a program to combat drug trafficking</li>
            <li class="option">the passage of the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare)</li>
            <li class="option">the passage of tax cuts during the George W. Bush administration</li>
            <li class="option">none of the above; all are public policy outcomes</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 5</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Which type of policy directly benefits the most citizens?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">regulatory policy</li>
            <li class="option">distributive policy</li>
            <li class="option">redistributive policy</li>
            <li class="option">self-regulatory policy</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 7</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Social Security and Medicare are notable for their assistance to which group?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">the poor</li>
            <li class="option">young families starting out</li>
            <li class="option">those in urban areas</li>
            <li class="option">the elderly</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 11</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Policy analysts seek ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">evidence</li>
            <li class="option">their chosen outputs</li>
            <li class="option">influence</li>
            <li class="option">money</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>A</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 13</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            A deficit is ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">the overall amount owed by government for past borrowing</li>
            <li class="option">the annual budget shortfall between revenues and expenditures</li>
            <li class="option">the cancellation of an entitlement program</li>
            <li class="option">all the above</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <h2>Chapter 17</h2>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 1</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Why are foreign policy issues more complicated than domestic policy issues?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">They are more specific.</li>
            <li class="option">They are more complex.</li>
            <li class="option">The international environment is unpredictable.</li>
            <li class="option">They are more expensive.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 3</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The goals of U.S. foreign policy include ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">keeping the country safe</li>
            <li class="option">securing access to foreign markets</li>
            <li class="option">protecting human rights</li>
            <li class="option">all the above</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>D</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 5</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            A sole executive agreement is likely to be in effect longer than is a treaty.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">true</li>
            <li class="option">false</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 7</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The War Powers Resolution ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">strengthened congressional war powers</li>
            <li class="option">strengthened presidential war powers</li>
            <li class="option">affected the presidency and congress equally</li>
            <li class="option">ultimately had little impact on war-making</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 11</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Why do House members and senators tend to be less active on foreign policy matters
            than domestic ones?
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">Foreign policy matters are more technical and difficult.</li>
            <li class="option">Legislators do not want to offend certain immigrant groups within their constituency.</li>
            <li class="option">Constituents are more directly affected by domestic policy topics than foreign ones.</li>
            <li class="option">Legislators themselves are not interested in foreign policy matters.</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 12</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            Neoconservativism is an isolationist foreign policy approach of a nation keeping to
            itself and engaging less internationally.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">true</li>
            <li class="option">false</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>B</p>
      </div>
      <div class="exercise">
         <h3>Exercise 14</h3>
         <div class="stem">
            The U.S. policy of containment during the Cold War related to keeping ________.
            
            </div>
         <ol type="A">
            <li class="option">terrorism from spreading</li>
            <li class="option">rogue countries like North Korea from developing nuclear weapons</li>
            <li class="option">communism from spreading</li>
            <li class="option">oil prices from rising</li>
         </ol>
         <p class="answer"><span>The Answer: </span>C</p>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>